That's great, uh?
So we'll start in one or two
minutes just waiting for other
students to join the class.
Uh.
My Internet status says that I
mean my Internet is not that
accurate. So if at some point my
sound cutoff or. Whatever
happened, let me know in
the chat box so.
Uh, thank you.
Oh OK, thank you, Ariya, thank
you. So.
Finally, my.
Monitor is actually delivered to
my place, so I can.
Use my monitor today.
Let me share my screen.
OK.
What happened?
What's happened?
Nothing.
Oh, I don't think so.
It's.
Maximum hz is 75 for this monitor.
Yes, I. But
I checked the response time,
so I guess the response time
is less than.
I forgot that.
Ah yes, correct, yes
millisecond, yeah. Uh so,
but when I check the I
mean, oh maybe it depends on.
My laptop as well, because uh, hertz
Because when I wanted to
change the Hertz, it
just give me the 5th 75.
So.
latter  we will see what does it mean hertz and.
What we mean by?
Higher Hertz the better, so I'm
going to start up.
An mean time. If you have any
questions, just Simply put your
question in the lectures.
we can't start without seeing your face.
I have it now. I mean in the
bottom of the blackboard you can
see my face. I believe Michael.
Or no.
Oh
that's a strange 'cause, uh?
I can see let me check my.
How about now?
Because I can
see my awesome.
OK.
Great, yeah, so let's start but.
Thought it was better, uh, I
just wanted to mention that we
released the grade or marking
for the lab. Three, and also for the lecture assignment three, uh, I
received some email from a
student about, I mean the
marking issues and.
Also, for the lab 0504.
Someone, for instance, I
received an email about. I
mean the second attempt or
third attempt.
In my first class, also in the course outline also in the
blackboard. So.
Probably all the students that
are attending the class knows
this. Plus I say this an in
order to record to be recorded
and then others can know that.
Please reach out to the.
Course lab instructor. For all
of these. So basically if you
want to see who's your lab
instructor, you can simply go.
Let me show you a.
You can simply go to the.
Sections and instructors.
And then here.
You can see a.
Here you can see that who is
your lab instructor. For
instance, if you already.
if you are in sec 53 Moeed is your lab instructor? Or if you are in the
Section 54? This is based on
your registration for the labs.
So then you know that that your lab instructor is Manil, so you
communicate with the lab
instructor and you explain your
problem or whatever you have and
they are responsible to address
your issue. If your problem is
not resolved, then.
Get back to me and. I'm happy
to help you. So at first try the
lab instructors. I know that
there are some. Marking issues
sometimes the market cannot run
your program, so you may receive
0, but then when you explain how
to run the program or sometimes
the markers actually miss to see
your files. And then you you
receive, I mean less than 100
Mark. So then you can
communicate with the Lab
Instructor they will, review your labs and then as I said, if.
As I said here, if not resolved,
then reach out to me.
So please do that and then, uh,
that's it. That's the only thing
that I. I wanted to mention.
So is there any other questions?
Can we please get solutions to
assignment so we have thorough understanding yes yes, I release the.
An added key, the key for
the assignments. So
basically now that we have the marks for lab
I will release the key for lab 2
because sometimes I extend the
deadlines for some students, so
I have to wait for them to
submit and then I will release
the key. But as I said,
sometimes you don't have the key
for all questions. You only have
the keys for. I mean those that
most of the students try to
answer them. So if you see
that, for instance we have 10
questions at the first
assignment, you will see the
whole I mean answers, but for
the old questions, but in
later lectures assignment
there is only function.
Is to the question. Yes, I will
do that also you can attend the
office hour or lab sections so
myself or the language structure
can solve the problem for you.
Ah.
So any other questions?
So seems like good to start up,
so we were at design.
Um?
We Said that, uh?
The design is that we are given
a problem. And we have to design
A logic circuit or digital unit
for that. Uh, and we said that.
I go to them or a step by step
manual to design any logic
circuit for any problems.
Uh, in order to do that, we
introduced the midterms.
He said that any logic circuit
can be represented by some of
minterms. Minterms was the.
At the end, within the binary
variables. Such that it makes
the output of 1. So basically
there is a relationship between minterms and truth table.
And then we said that when we write the boolen, the
output in the truth table
based on the midterms.
And, uh, to level at first level
we do and.
Basically the products by
product we mean ending and then
the result of these ants become
or together. So one final or at
the end. As a result, for the OR
we say that we use the symbol
plus, so that's why we call it
some. So design the logic
circuit based on the minterms becomes the sum of products or
we do products and then we sum them together or SOP
Or we Add all the inputs,
those inputs that makes
the output one and then.
For them to better. So basically
two level logic 2nd.
So here is an example. Just to
remind you about the this design
algorithm. So imagine we have a
truth table in the left side. We
have the binary variables as the
inputs in the right side we have
the binder variables at as the
output. So we have only one
binary variable as the output.
We called this Boolean
expression or Boolean function F
as a function of XYZ.
So we see that whenever XYZ
are all zero, the art of this
one. Whenever here Francis X
is 1 Y is 1 and Z0. The
output is 1 and etc.
Also for these three.
When we want to design.
So we said before minterms we only look at those entries. That
makes up one. So here.
Here. And these two here.
And then we said that we can
write the Boolean function F as
some of the minterms and these minterms are those minterms that
makes the output one. For
instance, this is the first
entry that makes the output one
and for this.
What's the new term? The term is
0 if put the zero binary value
for the zero in the input.
It makes the output one or.
Free entries here mean that
if you put the binary value
for 3:01, one is the binary
number for free.
Oh OK, OK alright. So let me
turn off my camera so.
OK.
So hopefully.
You don't have the
Internet issue.
How about now everything is
clear now you can see or
hear me well.
Awesome.
Awesome. Great. So,
uh. Here first.
that if you put the binary value for free,
it makes the output one or here
here is 101 which is 5 so many
that minterm five and here 110 which is 6 so minterm six.
Another way to run a right this
shorter way to write this is
this just some.
Are midterms 035 and six?
And then we don't. We want to
draw or sketch or put the
circuit in the paper. Here is
the design so.
The first And is the.
X bar Y bar Z bar.
This is the midterm 0.
And together. Here is the
midterm XY&Z, which is the
midterm 3, so this is the
midterm free as you can see
here XYZ bar.
Oh let me check
up.
The school is it cutoff so
maybe let me.
Stop my old.
All my software that use
Internet.
Stop this.
Also this one.
How can I?
1K.
I'm trying to stop all my.
Connection, I mean all
software that has a
connection to the Internet
to make my Internet better.
Oh OK, yeah, maybe that's the
issue on your side.
What so let me try
my best at least.
Good one drive.
Yeah, let's continue and let me
know if again.
The issue actually persists.
OK, and then we order is the result of these ands.
Uh, in the second level,
so it becomes products and
the sum sum of products.
One thing is that sometimes in
the right side of the truth
table you may have more than
one output or more than one
Boolean function. For
instance, F1F2F3 and more.
As an example, here is the truth
table that has one.
Output function this is the
previous truth table. Imagine we
have another. Here is the
design. Imagine we have another
function F2 that for the same
series of input. For instance
XYZ. But this function F2
becomes one only for these
midterms midterm 100 which is 4
and minterm 5.
So this is a totally different 2's table with another, I mean
a function F2 that makes that
becomes one for only mid term,
four and five.
So one way is that we can,
and here's the design. So F2 is
a minterm x bar y bar and Z which is 4 and XYZ which is 5
and then and then and then and
then order together.
So one thing always this in 1 2's table we put both functions
because the inputs are the same
for both functions. So XY and Z
so we can merge these two
through stable into one.
Behind
F1 Z minterm 0356 as before and F2 is Sigma minterm four and five.
So why this is good? The reason
is that you can merge the
circuit for these two functions
into one circuit.
And here is the result. So
basically you have XY&Z. Each of
them has in the normal form and in the compliment for. So as you
can see here minterm 5.
here it yes minterm 5.
Uh. Oh, let me know
this one. Yes yes
midterm 5 minterm 5 repeated in F2 and
also in F1.
Put that one circuit. This is the minterm file.
So XY bar and Z.
So not only we can use the result of the this for the
first function, also we can use
it for the second function.
So if you merge the two table
into 1 two stable and then merge
the circuits into one circuit,
there's a probability that you
can reuse the minterms in both circuits, as you can see here in
this minterm, it and five is also using F1 and also have two.
So this is 1 shorter way to
design circuits. So whenever you
see is saying series of.
Inputs in the for instance XYZ and you want to design different
Boolean functions out of the XY
and Z. We can put all the
Boolean function is 1 truth
table and then you can design it
in one logic circuit because you can reuse the same minterms
Well, another way would be you can list all the minterms
available midterms in the first
level. And only use those minterms that are needed for you
for the OR.
So I could for instance putting meet them, zero midterm, 1
minterm, 2 up until minterm 7.
But only use the output
of those meters that are
needed for my function.
This is another way to design.
So let's do a practice on a new
one. Here is the problem.
So so far we assume that the
truth table is given an will
what is sum of minterms. But imagine this problem. I mean
assume that we have this problem
but we are not given the truth
table. So basically it says that
we wanted this. Circuit
that outputs the division
the remainder of.
Any number divided by three.
So this is the problem. Now
we want to design. I mean I
finally wanna design A logic
circuit and we give it to
engineer to produce the
result of division by three
an output there remained.
So the first question is that so
far we know how to design A
circuit by minterms, so we have to 1st create the truth table.
And then based on the table, we write the minterms and then we
discuss the circuit.
So in the truth table we have
two sides, left side, the
binary or input variables in
the right side the outputs or
Boolean functions. So we have
to see how many binary
variables we need in the left
side, how many binary
variables we need in the right
side.
So let's start with the
left side.
So for the left side, we said
that the remainder of any number
divided by three, so we have to
ask what is the range of numbers
we want to divide by three and
then act with the remainder.
So the first question is this,
what is the range of numbers?
You ask the the person that put
give you the problem and said
said that I mean what is the
range of your number you want to
divide by three and ask me to
help with the remainder.
So the guys would say that the
range of numbers would be
between 0 and 15.
So in decimal system.
So basically it says that I want
to give any number between 01234
open till 15 an I want to I want
you to design A circuit that
asked the remainder.
But in our system we are working
with the Boolean logic or we are
working with binary system. All
our gates we know working with
zero and once so we have to.
Transfer or transform this
decimal system to binary system.
So in the binary system, zero
becomes zero and one becomes
1/2, becomes 103, becomes 11,
etc. So basically you have to
convert all these decimal
numbers into binary.
So you know already know that
the 15 becomes 111. So
basically, for representing any
decimal number between zero to
15, we need 4 bits.
Fan 0. 21111 this is the
binary system, so you already
know how to convert a decimal
system to binary system.
So for this problem you see that
the input needs four positions.
From zero 123 up until 15,
which is 111.
So now you know how many
positions you need for the
input, then you have to pick
a variable name for each of
these positions. You have
four positions, you have to
pick four variables.
I pick XY&Z&W. You could pick
ABCD, another guy with the kick
and other variables, for
instance RF. EDS, whatever
any variable is OK.
Uh, this is my standard, XY, ZW.
You could say that YXYWZ.
Uh, it's just under there.
But the important thing is that
the order matters here because
you are representing the binary
digit 40 binary number 4123456
up until 15.
So the left side is OK now.
Unit 4 binary variable
in the input and these
are all combinations.
How about the right side?
So now you have to calculate
the. In there of the
division by three.
The output what's the output?
The remainder of the output? Any
number divided by three has the
correct. Andrew has the
remainder 012. This is by math
any number divided by three has
the remainder 012.
In general, any number divided
by any another number, for
instance, M. The result gonna be
between zero point 11 -- 1.
So if you want to cancel the
remainder by 5, is always
between zero to four an, etc.
This is my math.
So here we are going to divide
by three. The remainder gonna be
between 0, one and two. Again
this is in decimal system. We
have to convert it into binary.
So any binary number between
zero and two.
So 0222 the binary number for
two is 1 zero, so you need
2 bits to represent the
remainder 0001 N 10.
So you see that for the output
of Boolean function in the
output you need 2 bits.
The same you have to pick a
variable name for the outputs,
because these are in the right
side or the output be called
MF1F2 etc. Instead of just
putting AB or XY.
So. You put it here F1.
So it would be it's to represent
the remainder between zero and
two, and these are the positions for the output
And now we have to fill out the
two stable. So for the first one
0 / 3, the remainder is 0.
And zero the binary
number is 00.
And then the next number is one
1 / 3, the remainder is 1.
2 / 3 The remainder is 2.
Three, the remainder of three by
three is 0, so 00.
4 / 3 is 1 the
remainder. And it sets
up until 15. So 15 / 3
the remainder is 0.
So you fill out the whole truth
table. Now that you have the
truth table, you have to write
the mid terms for each output
for F1 and F2.
For the minterm, we said that we only look at those entries. That
makes the output one. So for the
F1 this is the entry. This one,
this one and this one, and this
one for the F2 is this.
This, this, this and that. OK
so. Here is the meters,
so for them it's for F1.
Is minterm? What is the term, the minterm, the index for minterm
is the binary digit, so this is
these two. So mid term 2.
And then we turn.
Five, and then it turn. This is
the meter. 1000 is the meter
eight you see here we turn 8.
Mid term this is the meter 8 +
311, so this is the meeting free
you see here.
That was makes the F1.
In the output one.
We have to do the same for F2,
so for F2 what are the meetings
that makes the F2 one? This is
the meter one.
Return here is Mr. 30 sorry
Mr 4. This is the midterm 7.
So here is the meter 8 + 210.
This is the midterm 10 and this
is midterm 30.
So when you write them in
terms, you don't look at
what was the problem. You
just look at the entries
that makes the output one.
So the shorter form for this
is just putting a Sigma
midterm and put the meter
numbers. So here is the
Boolean function for the F1.
8 seven and 14 for the F2 is minterm 1 four seven 1013.
And now you have to sketch the
circuit or logic diagram or the
unit logic unit.
And here is this second.
So for the F1 midterm,
2, five, 811 and 14,
so XYZ. It's one in the
normal format.
Signs or red wire?
X bar YZ bar W bar.
x bar y z bar w bar m2
Over M5, an attachment.
For the F2, the same m minterm, 1 minterm 4/7/10 and 13.
Or then again. So you see that
in one design we have F1 and F2.
So now let's check.
Let's check that our design is
correct. So imagine the input is
the number we want to see the
division of 10.
Bar.
Any?
It becomes three and the
remainder is 1. So we want to
see that. Can we see one in the
output or not? So 10 in the
decimal system. If it goes to
the binary system 10.
In a decimal system, is
equal to.
What number? Anybody?
Otherwise, I mean not the
number. If you have to practice
a lot that whatever. Whenever
you see it and you have to
immediately put the binary as
correct, Kaden and Philip, 1010.
So now I want to input the 1010
in the circuit, so here is
become zero. Here it becomes
one. Zero and one.
And we want to see what's the output of F1.
So here O comes here becomes
one. Here one comes here one.
Here, O becomes not
here becomes one.
And here one comes here becomes
not become zero.
So because one.
Is 0, so the output gonna be 0?
So let's go to the M5AN50 comes
here 0 comes here. It becomes 0
so we don't need to check other
inputs because in the end if the
input is 0 the output is always.
Let's see the M8 N 8.
Here we have zero and
then not becomes one.
This input of the Ant is
attached to here one, not
it becomes 0. So again we
have 1 zero in the input,
so this one becomes 0.
And then in this one.
For this One X is 0.
So we have 0 here.
Because in the input of
the and you have zero
and let's check the M14.
M14 gonna be up.
Zero comes here becomes one.
This this input is attached to Y
which is 1. This input is
attached to ZZ is 0.
So here becomes 0.
So all the input of this or is
0, so the output for F1 is 0.
Let's check for the F2.
F2 for the first one, FM little
one. So here is the AX0, so
the output of this cannot be 0.
M4 here we have
0 knots becomes one.
His input is attached.
I not become zero.
So here we have at least 10D
input, so the ad is 0.
M7
X is 0 so M7 gonna be 0.
Ant, an Ant and so.
Zero knots comes here becomes
one. Here is why it is 1.
Here comes ZZ Bar Z0 becomes
NOTS becomes one and then here
YW is 1. So all the inputs
are one. So the output is 1
so we don't have.
The second we don't have to
check this one because we see at
least one. Digital one in the
input four or so have to gonna
be 1. So.
I think the output we have F10F2
one and this is the binary digit
for remainder decimal 1. So it
seems that our circuit is
working perfect. So you can
check for other inputs to see
whether it apples the correct
remainder or not.
Any questions?
No questions.
So seems everything is OK.
There's 10.
It's the end game.
Yes, I mean in the end gate for
these ones. For instance here I
didn't check the these ones
because in the end get if you
have at least 1 zero in the
input, the output is 0.
Indiana State
but for the orgatec.
You have to. The organ is that
if you have at least one digital
one in there, but you don't have
to check others because or one
with anything gonna be 1.
So we already checked
this, yeah?
How do you know which ones are
complementing the midterms?
Two is. This one.
Oh, because for instance, why
your question is that why and
things like this.
He wanted it for two years.
When you are given four position
0010, it means that the first
position must be in the
complement form. If you put pick
the variable name.
Exit, but it would be explored.
The second one must be in the
normal form, while the third One
Zebra. And then this last one W
bought. So because the in desert
in meter shows the binary
number. That's why you
come up with the meter.
So we already said that how you
map the midterm I.
To the.
Uh, the and form of the binary
variables you have to simply
make the AI into binary system
and then write the.
The end of the binary variables.
313 converted to decimal is.
A 14 let me let me
explain this again.
How can I erase all the?
OK.
Um?
So 13 let me see. So you
say that what's the M 13?
You have to convert the 13 into
binary system, so 13 in binary
system is. A 13 so we already
know how the algorithm we have
to divide by two.
So it becomes A6 and
the remainder is 1 and
then 6.2 is.
Three and the remainder is 0.
Then a three by two.
Is.
One and the remainder is 1 and
then one by two is 0 and
the remainder is 1 and then you
put the remainder in the reverse
order so it becomes 1101.
We already know how to
convert a decimal system.
Now this is the binary #413. So
what is the M 13 and 13? Is that
the first position in the normal
form? If you put pick their
variable then acts it becomes X.
The second position in the
complement form. Libor?
The third and fourth
position in the normal
forms, so it becomes Z&W.
If you pick ABCD, so the meeting
three becomes this one.
A normal form deeper.
Competent form Z.
Sorry, let me check.
Also not Z because ABC becomes C
and then. Eat.
So whatever variable, then you
choose, you have to check
whether the binary digit has one
or zeros. If it is one normal
form, it is zero compliment for.
Makes sense, Kevin.
Oh oh. See
team.
13 Here is.
And 13 this one is 1110,
which is 14 correct? Yeah Oh
my God correct.
You're right, yes.
Correct?
This should be XI fixed that
XY bar. Z&W
correct, thank you.
Oh, thank you.
So let's move on to the second
algorithm for design.
I'll wait a sec
So.
There is another design for any
problem. If you want to design A
logic circuit for that.
Use in the first algorithm. We
looked at those entries that
makes up one.
Here somebody may say that let's
look at those entries. That
makes the output 0.
So if I design a second that
considers the output with zero,
and then I applied the nuts at
the end, it becomes our circuit.
So basically I capture those
entries that makes the output
zero and then apply and not
after that so it becomes a.
Correct design like before, so
here is the 2nd algorithm stuff,
But for this one I have to
explain something called maxter.
For previous design, we said
meters. Now we need maximum, so
usually maximum is all in
capital letters just to make a
difference from the midterms.
Midterms was based on the.
Based on this standard and.
Or by and we mean
standard product.
But here we mean maxterm and we
are dealing with some of the
binary variables. Let's see what
we mean by maxtone.
So again, if you are given
only one binary variable,
the binary variable can be
in the normal form.
Or in the compliment for.
So this.
Very similar to the midterms.
So now instead of assigning me
terms, I assign something called
Master. And the index is the in
in a way that makes the.
Output for the binary variable
0. Instead of making one, it
makes it 0.
The Max term is equal to minterm bar or minterm not.
So for instance, if the
variable is happening
in the complement form.
Which is the meters. I apply
another not on top of that. So
not on not becomes X itself so
it becomes in the normal form.
So maximum zero goes
to the normal form of
the binary variables.
And then Max then one goes to
the emitter, one followed by
not, so it was X followed by the Not becomes x bar
So you see the difference here for the minterms we assign in
minterm such that makes the binary variable one. Here we
assign a Max term in a way
that makes the binary variable
0. So if you represent a
binary variable with the
binary #0, it makes the.
Again here, if you put one in
the binary variable so one
followed by the not becomes 0.
So for the Max term we are
dealing with, when the binary
variable or the term of the
binary values mix becomes 0.
So if you are given two
variables X&Y, these are
different weight. You can order
them together, so again,
midterms was based on the end.
As we step, Max term is for
this, some or all of the binary
variables. So if you're given
two binary variables, we are we,
we may we gonna have four
different 4 four different overs
between them, either you or the
normal form here X or Y.
Or you an order with Y or
explore or why bar or X or Y
bar or X bar?
So with the two binary
variables, we're gonna have four
different or within that.
So.
Now I want to say that the
relationship between the end and
or. So basically again, here is
the different orders between two
binary variables, all the
possibilities. We already knew
what are the possible and
within by new variables. Now
we want to see the
relationship between or an
end.
Actually, this
mathematician and logician
are.
Said before there's a whole deep
theory behind the binary system
and binary computer systems,
which comes from mathematics. So
the Morgan was, I mean, as you
see here in 1800.
He was living at that time.
Yes, because this guy is a
famous guy in mathematician and
he proposes through laws.
And these laws are very although
very simple but very handful.
Uh, actually, in any science
they say that the simpler, the
more effective. So that was this
is 1 example this guy proposed
to simple law.
What kind of theory or kind
of accident, not axiom?
Through it Vision that is
helping a lot will see this
formula. I mean multiple times
in our course.
And here's their relationship.
It says that if you add two
binary variables, here, X&Y.
And then apply in not on top of
them. It is equal to
bring the nut inside.
On top of each binary variables, so x bar
And y bar, but it changes the add between that it makes it or.
So X&Y bar becomes x bar or y bar
The same is here if you apply
not on top of or of two binary
variables. So X or Y followed by
nots. You have to bring the not inside so it goes on top
of each pointer variable. x bar y bar and it changed the order
two dot or add.
This is very I mean simple, but
very crucial. You can check
whether these two are correct by
truth table. Actually, in the
lecture assignment I asked you
to prove this.
Uh, these two formula.
By truth table. So in the left
side you can create the
pointer variables for XY
followed by not and then in
the right side you can check
that the result cannot be like
this.
So what's this?
Is it for maximum for two binary
variables? So if I have two
binary variables X&Y?
You already said that there are
four different ways X or Y Expo
or YX or Y board and explore why
bot. So how can I assign match
them to these different or
within two binary variables?
Here is the way. Basically you
assign Maxim 0.
To this one.
Which is equal to minterm 0 followed by nuts.
So you already assigned minterm 02X, bar Y bar.
So now you assign minterm 0 followed by the nots.
Here followed by the nots.
This is already, you know,
that this is midterm 0.
minterm 0 followed by the not so you bring the not inside so it
goes on top of each pointer
variables so expor followed by
another not becomes X.
y bar followed by another bar becomes? Why and then it changed
the end to or?
So minterm Zero goes to X or Y.
Let's check this one.
So minterm 2 minterm 2 is equal to me. Sorry Maxterm 2
equal To minterm 2 followed by
nots. So what was returned to return two? Was this so
basically 10?
So here is the zero, followed
by, not because one and by
one becomes one. So this is. This is minterm 2.
minterm followed by the not. So you bring the not inside.
So not on top of x bar becomes X not on top of XY, becomes Y
bar and it changed the end to
or. So you assign me
maximum 22X or Y bar.
Here is the mapping, so whenever
you forgot how to assign a
maximum two or of two binary
variables, you just simply
assume that how. Or you can
create the midterm.
And then followed by the nots.
So also you can, uh, I mean.
that. So basically you could say this one Maxim two.
What is the binary #4 two it is
given two positions. It is 1
zero. If it is 1 zero
I applied not on top of that
it becomes 10, but it
becomes or between them, so
then it becomes X.
Or y bar This is another way.
For instance, for minterm 3 you can say that minterm 3
is. This is the three in binary
system and then you apply not.
It becomes zero or zero.
So now you have export.
Or whatever.
This is another way to come
up with this mapping.
How about 3 binary variables
when you are given three
binary variables, you gonna
have how many different or
you can create.
Anybody?
So you are given three
binary variables.
Each one have a 2 forms,
but either in the normal
form on the compliment for.
So this is very similar to.
Have on your variables and you
want to add them together.
So each one, two different
possibilities or two to the
power. Three 8 * 8
different ways.
So here is all those various. I
mean different ways you can
order together. So either X or
Y or Z or the first one is
not the other one, Y is not.
X bar or white bar or ZXYZ
botan etc. You see you can
create 8 different forms.
Given or as the operator and
each partner available either in
the compliment form.
Or in the normal form.
Now you have to assign Maxterms
so. Maxim 0 so zero when
you are given three binary
variables is 000.
Followed by not it becomes one
or one or one. So then you can
write it X or Y or Z. So
you assign meet Maxim 0 to this.
Turn.
Which is equal to midterm 0,
followed by not.
For instance here.
You assign maximum 5 to
disturb why? Because five is
101. And then you followed
by the not it becomes 01.
0. So export.
What?
Anne.
So this is the
assignment of maxterms
to three binary
variables that always be
the only operator is
over between them.
So in general, if you are given
N binary variables, you're gonna
have a 2 to the power of 10
different or within them. So it
is going to be N -- 1 and here N
minus one. From zero up until N
-- 1 becomes N variables, each
one have two forms. So in total
you're going to have two to the
power and different forms.
And here are the different forms, so.
You see, uh, the minterm Zero goes to when they all of them
happen in the normal form.
So basically, if you create zero
in each of these variables, it
makes the maximum 0 zero or zero
or zero or zero makes it 0.
Maxim 1, meaning that if you
put a 0 here 00 and
then here one.
One followed by do not become
zero and at the end.
So basically the maxterms are
making zeros based on the binary
numbers in the binary variables.
Up until here presence here
maxterm the maximum number.
Is for the minterm. We have one one in all position one.
Followed by the nots.
So you see here.
It means that one here, one
here, all of them followed by
the nots becomes 0.
So this is the. assignment of Maxterm to the orbiting binary
variables. So what's the
benefit of this?
So now we want to write the
Boolean function in the truth
table based on the maxterms.
So here is very important, so I
need your full attention. So
before I start I just want you.
To give me some feedback that
you have the focus to be slides.
Guys, OK Michael,
thank you Michael.
Thank you
Because this part is kind
of tricky, so I need your
full attention.
Thank you as some thank you Jim
Matthew Riley. So we have 50
student in the class so.
I will.
So Taylor.
Jaykumar animal.
Sorry if sometimes I cannot
pronounce your name correctly.
Cameron, thank you.
Various so it seems
everyone has the focus.
Although still I haven't
received 50 feedbacks, but
let's continue.
You see, you already saw
that. If you are given two
binary variables.
And we see in the right side of
the truth table. For instance,
we have two ones.
It means that the minterm here's the midterm 0, and here is the
minterm one so we can write only those midterms that makes it.
Output one.
So be careful here I can
rewrite this function.
Another way.
So here is this cat. So here is
the. This is the midterm zero
and one and here is the midterm
0. And here's the meter one so
or them together. So basically
this sum of some of these
products. So this is the design
we already know how to do that.
So now I do am not on top
of the Boolean function.
When I do and not on top of F.
We wanna see what it makes it 0.
For instance, here one becomes
01, becomes 0.
But zero becomes one and zero
becomes one. So basically just
not of the F. Whenever you see
one, it outputs zero. Whenever
you see zero it out. Which one?
So F1 so if or if you write in
midterms for F.
So assume that the function is
this. This is the function.
This is the function
F1. Now F bar becomes
one in the mid term 2.
And little 3.
So F becomes one for the enemy
terms zero and one F4 becomes
one for their remaining midterms
and two an M3.
OK.
So how about now?
Can you hear me?
OK, OK so it seems
it's back so again.
For the F.
Return zero and one makes it one
for the F.
But for the F bar, the remaining
in terms makes it a four one. So
M2 and M3.
So whatever makes it 0, four F1
makes it 1 four F4.
So F4 is midterm 2 and three.
So.
Now let's do this.
All. Let's put it laser point.
OK, now I do another nuts on top
of the F bar.
So F4. Followed by
the not becomes F.
Ask for or was already an two or
an three, followed by the nuts.
So basically I applied another
nuts to bring the FO.
But the right side is M2 or M3,
followed by the nuts.
So we although we see the
same truth table here, 1100 the
same as F1100.
But the right side here you see.
This is for the F4M2 or M3,
followed by them nuts.
So again, F is N 0 or N1. I
create a four which becomes
M2 or M3. I applied another,
not an F for the right side
becomes F4 followed by the
North which becomes F but
the right side becomes M2 or
M3 followed by dinner.
So you see that I can rewrite F
by M2 or M3 nuts and M2 an
M3 or those entries that makes
the output 0.
So now I bring the not
inside the parenthesis.
So again. F is F bar followed by the nots and F4 was M2 or
M3 followed by the not. I bring the not inside by D. Morgan's
law. If I bring the not inside it becomes M2 bar and three
board and or becomes an.
And I already know that M2
followed by the not the mid term
2 followed by the not becomes maxterm to an M3 followed by the
not becomes maxterm
So it becomes Maxim 2, Maxim 3
and between them.
An Maxim 2 is the entry that
if you write the binary
number in the input, it
makes the output 0.
And Max in three.
If you write the input by the
binary number 43.
The output 0.
So you see that now I write F as
the end of Max term. That makes
the output 0.
And if you check, you see
that is still the app outputs
140001 and output 041011.
So you can write app as the sum
of midterm 0.
Or midterm 1.
Another way you can write F as
the Maxim 2 and Max down free.
So this is another design.
So we can rewrite it as a
product because Ann is means
that ending or producting two terms. So you can minterm 2
and minterm three you can
write it. Product of
Maxim two and three.
For the meeting we have some of
midterms. For this one we have
product of Maxterms.
An Maxim 2 based on our
assignment was X or Y bar.
Maxim three was export or
whiteboard. How can we
come up with these terms?
You can simply say that OK
Max term two is here 10.
So 10 you have to apply a nut on
top of that becomes 01, but the
OR between them? So let me
change to the pan.
So Maxim 2 Maxim 2 is here 10.
You apply not it becomes one or
zero. And now you can write it.
So this is the X.
And this is the Y bar and then
or between them. This is the
next time too. And this is
the Max term fee.
So you see that if you write the
F only by looking at the zeros,
you have to write it by the Max
terms and product of that.
And between that.
And here is the design.
So for the match term you apply
orpin binding variables 1st and
then add them together.
So this is the master.
What's the maximum here?
2. Because here if you
have zero or one.
01 If you apply another nut, it
brings it to mid term, so it
becomes 10 and between them.
So this is the new term 2, so
meter two followed by the not
becomes maximum 2. And this is
the Maxterm 3.
Order the result gonna be under.
This is the ad.
Add them together.
So the difference between the
first is on and the second
design is this in the first
design you have at the first
level you have ants and then or
in the second design by Max term
you have or and then add.
That's why we called the second
design product of sums. So
basically you have to write the
Max terms in terms of this sum
of the binary variables.
This is all the sounds or is
gonna be and with each other or
product so POS.
The first design is SOP the second design is POS
So or then Max terms are by
over within binary variables.
And then add so again 2 levels.
Or at. So.
Here is the another example.
Imagine we have this truth
table. X&Y and we already
know how to write it based on
the meter, so the midterm 01
and three is the function.
Now we want to write it as
the maxterms.
The maximum is basically look at
those entries. So here's the
design based on the SOP
For the Max term, as I said, you
apply an not.
It becomes F4, which
makes this one one.
And then apply another not.
To bring it back to F so F4
followed by bar becomes F, but
this time becomes M2 bar.
So basically you see
that this this entry.
Makes it 0 for the original F
which is. The minterm 24F, four followed by the nots.
M2 followed by the not is maxed into.
Because if you write the
binary variable for two, it
makes the F0.
An If you design by based on the
Max terms, here is the same
function. Max term and two which
is equal to mid term 2 followed
by the nuts and this is the mid
term 2 followed by the not. This
is the maximum 2.
Just an OR gate is enough, but
because we say that we have two
levels, you can add another and
in the end so or and with one it
doesn't have any impact. Just to
keep this standard that we have
one level of or and final level
of AND. So if you add with one doesn't have any impact.
So here is the.
So. We have SOP you have POS both end up with the
same correct function. But
if you want to choose which
one you choose. If you are
given a problem and you have
the decision to, you have
the option to design it as
the aesopi or designed it as
a POS. Which one you choose.
For this last example,
for instance.
Here.
If you write it as the sum of minterms, you need how many ands?
Because you need one and four
with 10:01 and four midterm 1
one and 4,000,000 three. So you
need three and.
And then finally you have to.
One or you have to order so one
date of or.
However, in this design.
How many gates do you need? You
only need one or gate.
Because you have only one entry
to look at to look into it and
then write it as in your design.
Here you have to look at 2-3
entries. So if you compare these
two design, although both are
correct or effective, the first
design needs 4 gates. The second
design is only one gate, so.
Uh, this second design is much
more cost effective, over much
more cheaper, so the second
design is better.
So.
We want it and also if you want
to add another and it becomes
true gates. So in the second
design you have two gates, but
in the first design you need 4
gates. So whenever you want to
choose between these two design
you have to keep that. Although
both are correct but which one needs less number of gates
In terms of speed, both designs
actually has the same speed
because in the SOP
You have one level of And
And then finally you
order together.
So two level you have to wait
two times or two time intervals
to see the result. For the POS
you have one level of.
Or
followed by final And
So again two level.
So both of them are two
levels designed, so the speed
are the same. The only thing
matters here is the number of
gates you need.
So.